Using Big Data to analyse Customer Behaviour with Recency, Frequency and Monetary values.

Big Data tools are used to identify potential customers for retail Industry.

Customers are classified as High Value, Medium Value and Lower Value

Dataset : The Dataset consists of 541909 data. The data consists of 8 columns.

Feature Selection: All important columns in analysing customer behaviour were selected and the rest were dropped. 
All columns in dataset were converted to requires column type for easy analysis. Relevant column needed to gain knowledge from data were transformed and a new column created.
This includes transforming the date and time into seconds.



Pre-Processing
The dataset of retail store will need to be processed using the following methods:
1. All columns were transformed into required Datatype.
2. Any missing or null values were dropped in the dataset.
3. InvoiceDate column were converted from stringtype to timestamptype
4. UnitPrice converted from stringtype to floattype, while Quantity were converted from stringtype to Intergertype.
5. All relevant dataframe were joined considering CustomerID as keyvalue to give a combined column with CustomerID, recency, frequency and monetary variables.


Elbow Method. This method is to obtain optimum value of k (number of clusters) in Recency, Frequency and Monetary Values.
Increasing the value of k decreases SSE, while the graph decreases gradually from k=2 to k=3, and then from k =3 to k =4 
until the value k is stable. The drastic decrease results to elbow at point k = 3, which is the ideal cluster.

OTHER METHODS OF GEETING K VALUE 
-Silhouette Coefficient

Method for Predicting Customer Segmentation
1. Kmean Clustering using optimum K value
2. Decision Tree Classifier
3. Random Forest Classifier
4. Logistic Regression


VALIDATING THE BEST MODEL
5-FOLD CROSS VALIDATION: To choose the best performing model for analysing customer Behaviour.


Confusion Matrix: To obtain Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1 measure


Cluster Segmentation
 Cluster 0 - High Value Customer
 Cluster 1 - Mediun Value Customer
 Cluster 2 - Low Value Customer
